---
title: Challenge Galway 2016
date: "2016-06-30T22:40:32.169Z"
---

Before 2013 I had only met one ‘Ironman’ and couldn’t get my head around the swim alone. I never seemed to be able to grasp it at school, spending lessons half blind and unable to hear anything going on. I’ve always been a bit hopeless at sport too but my competitive streak decided to finally make an appearance when my boss asked if any of the team would like to join in with the DCT sprint 2 months away. I swapped my MTB for a road bike, and joined Pulse having seen them fly past me a few weeks early in Blessington. A week later I was introduced to Wicklow and couldn’t believe what I had been missing. Next up Killarney and it’s not long before I’m needing to be escorted back to the coast at snail pace by Chris with no wetsuit, sorry Chris. Race day soon arrives and adrenaline outweighs competency as I find myself wondering what I’m doing in the freezing Liffey river chaos. I finally get out and get a boost on land. DCT is a fantastic first race as you’ll soon find yourself in good company on the 4/7 lap cycle course competing with all abilities. Dingle olympic a few months later was distinctly quieter with a good dose of jellyfish, sea mist and local roads thrown into the mix.

2 years on and having built confidence more than anything else joined 70 odd other club members in registering for Dublin 70.3. Falling off the bike resulted in an overly generous 2 month taper but I managed to break 6 hours, which was all I needed to convince myself that Ironman was a ‘good’ idea. Chris had mentioned his 2 year plan towards an Ironman goal a year earlier and it was amazing seeing it come to fruition.

September 2015 and I find myself registered for Challenge Galway, partly due to a pushy website that wouldn’t stop reminding me I hadn’t completed registration. I soon picked up a copy of Be Ironfit by Don Fink, discovered that the Pulse club sessions aligned perfectly, and started early December. Monday Joe’s S&C, Tuesday Kevin’s 90min spin, Wednesday Alison’s spin+treadmill, Thursday morning swim, Saturday club spin, Sunday Pheonix park running. The club offers so much with such supportive and knowledgeable members at its heart. 

Soon it was time to test the waters and having read somewhere that race experience was key I didn’t hold back on signing up for events. Quest Glendolough, Belfield duathlons, Howth and pulse aquathons, Lough Cutra half, Triathy double, Limerick half marathon, and the excellent club TTs. Additionally the thought of long bike rides in the early wetter months can be off-putting but they can still be enjoyable. Eager to keep up with Andrea we planned a few mad days of cycling; March-time Wicklow 200, Dublin to Limerick cycle (followed by limerick half), a ‘mock’ Ironman, Dublin to Newry, and mountain biking/trail runs at Ticknock. I was soon getting a feel for what a day’s exertion might entail. 

A week out from the big day and I opt for some ill-advised white water rafting, which ends with me limping for the preceding days. I seem to have a habit of doing something silly before marathons, having failed to make the start for the previous 2 Dublin marathons. 

Race day and I’m glad to have my family to distract me from the day ahead. I managed to find an Airbnb 10min down the beach from the start and it really must have helped with the nerves. I’m feeling ready and the not knowing if I’ll be able to run later removes some of the pressure. We enter the 15 degrees water and are soon on our way. I place myself right of the group and it ends up being very similar to Athy a few weeks earlier, touching plant life with every stroke, which helps keep me calm in the initial frenzy and I eventually find my pace. 1:07 later and I’m already being cheered by some of Pulse who had managed to make it down to Oranmore (really appreciated!). 

The wet conditions are perfect for someone living in Ireland, and I’m bracing myself for the post Gort track, which I soon discover has been been resurfaced and I find myself amongst a group of 2 or 3 cyclists who push each other through the remainder of the course. The fog starts to build up and I lose myself through the middle section when I get a welcome boost from Eithne in the rain. A few sketchy hairpins, a long drag up to Corkscrew hill and I’m finally on the coastal road back to Galway. I’m overwhelmed by the group of Pulsers as I enter T2 and more than ready to stretch out my back on the run. The weather has subsided and again like Athy I just have to complete 4 laps without the thought of a marathon entering my mind. The knee feels ok, can’t believe my luck and can only put it down to adrenaline, excited and relief in my back after 6:10 on the bike.

There are already a good few out on the run course, and I feel like I'm making progress and looking forward to the next aid station and seeing Pulse and family after each loop. Finally 11 hours and 9 minutes later I have all 4 bands and make the final turn towards the red carpet.

It meant so much to be able to share that experience with the people I had trained with week on week since December and I’m looking forward to being there in Frankfurt when many of them will be racing. 

A big thank you to everyone in the club. I'm not the most vocal of members but I really do enjoy all aspects of the club; club training weekends, club races, coached pool sessions, Sunday runs, club cycles, TTs, spin sessions, S&C, Killiney open water swims, Corkagh brick sessions, and the breadth of experience within the club. There really is so much being offered. Special mention to Joe (S&C sessions), the swim coaches (Dave, Colin and Alan), Kevin, Alison, Andrea, and Chris.