---
title: Ironman Wales 2017
date: "2017-09-11T22:40:32.169Z"
---

After a couple of surprise results at Challenge Galway and Dublin Marathon last year I was far too eager to do it all over again and promptly signed up for Austria and Wales. My somewhat ambitious goal was a sub 10 in Austria with it being one of the quicker courses and so I got to work on my bike with a new power meter and trainer road. It was going great, with my FTP increasing week on week. 

I managed to get a week snowboarding in the alps and was getting a kick out of being able to last all day benefiting from all the training. Unfortunately fitness is no substitute for skill and it wasn’t long before I found myself dealing with a broken back. My Doctor was keen for me to return to the pool as soon as I could and while making the difficult decision to unplug from Austria being able to swim meant the minor inconvenience served as fuel on the fire. Two months later I was back on the bike doing my favourite sportives, one more month had me back running so I ready for some national series action. 

The sprints and olympics were a perfect opportunity to experiment with the power meter, and by adhering to target power I had confidence that the run would be manageable. I also took part in a DCU study, which involved hooking myself up to breathing apparatus and doing 1min threshold efforts until fail week after week. If you can I’d really recommend doing something like this as it really helps explore ones limitations plus it helps provide a little context to the numbers.

I peaked a little early on the bike having pushed myself at Gira (brilliant closed race in Belfast) and Wicklow 200, practically putting it rest while I spent the 2 months leading up to Wales working on the swim and run. Swimming involved 3 pulses sessions a week plus the Monday sea swim and I found the extra session really helped to maintain technique. The Howth aquathlon series is good for injecting some open water racing early in the season and the ocean breaker sessions at Killiney helped remove a tendency to hold back in fear of the worst. 

Wales is a convenient race, €120 return for the car ferry allowed me to accommodate every possible eventuality, which is a good thing given wales reputation for variable conditions. I had soaked up hours of video footage for the event and had overplayed thunderstruck and eye of the tiger in the lead up as I feared an inevitable adrenaline rush. The scale was also so different to Galway the previous year with 1800 vs 350 participants. The rolling start was a little more energetic than expected; having self-seeded on making the final turn onto the beach it was more of a mass charge into the 18 degrees water...so lucky. The buoys are a decent size, so no issues with sighting with one placed immediately below the red lifeguard house. The sea was actually pretty calm and made for a really enjoyable swim. There’s lots of talk about the 1 mile climb to transition but the five person deep crowds lining up all the way to T1 distract you from the discomfort. Stephen followed shortly after in T1 and it was great to see a familiar face as I put on an extra jersey and promptly emptied my pockets on the floor. 

I had previously been out on the bike course in rain a few weeks earlier so conditions were actually better now, a small boost as we were all made very aware that rain was on its way. Part of my experimenting with power involved splitting the bike up into 48 sections with varying target power based on forecasted wind and elevation data using Best Bike Split. I stuck to this with 70% FTP effort but it’s no fun being passed by bike after bike. Everybody seemed to be going for but perhaps it’s partly because I’m so used to being further back on the swim. 2hrs and I finally start to pass people, partly due to the rain. I’m relieved I have the jersey at this point; the rain is coming down and the course begins to get a little technical.

Finally I turn right for the final drag into Tenby. When I had looked at this weeks earlier are decided I was done for the day and promptly hopped into the car. After all the previous climbs it was just another hill and the promise of stepping off the bike without event meant you barely noticed it. My lower back was pretty sore at this point and you begin wondering what those first few steps on the run will feel like. WC, into T2 and just being able to straighten out your back feels amazing. Also the sun was starting to break out and Tenby is ready to cheer you on for the run. 

My approach to running is a little less scientific; I pick a pace that I like, ideally rounded to the minute and stubbornly maintain an average pace. My quads are usually the first to complain where hills are involved both in running and biking, and so I was afraid what the downhills might do if I adopted a slow up-fast down approach. Ian suggested I keep it as steady as possible and I was surprised how well it worked. After each climb the prospect of one less sighting of the hill really drives you on along with the incredible experience of support on every street in Tenby as you zigzag your way through the town. I felt decent throughout the run with the exception of a quiver of the calf on the final hill. The fear of it suddenly cramping made me ease off slightly and go straight for the tortilla crisps. I’ve never eaten them on a run, which sounds alarm bells but they taste amazing and something to consider in training. These and cola comfortably got me through the run, neither a fancy form of race nutrition.

The finish line seem to come soon enough and I believe the pacing on the bike played a massive part in this. I’m still scratching my head as to how the winner managed a time of 5:03, 30 seconds off the bike course PB in less than ideal conditions, and this will definitely be my focus over the winter months for Austria next year.